fix: use `path()` instead of `url()` for ESI includes (#10988)
shopware/platform: changelog/_unreleased/2025-07-03-esi-url-instead-of-path.md

---

> title: Use path() instead of url() for ESI includes to avoid HTTPS issues with Varnish

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Change URL generation for ESI includes to avoid HTTPS issues with Varnish
```

> issue: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Use path() instead of url() for ESI includes to avoid HTTPS issues with Varnish
issue: 
author: Stefan Poensgen
author_email: mail@stefanpoensgen.de
author_github: @stefanpoensgen
---
# Storefront

> # Changed `src/Storefront/Resources/views/storefront/base.html.twig` Switched from url() to path() for ESI includes in the storefront base template. This ensures that only the path is used for ESI fragments, so Varnish is not forced to handle HTTPS internally. This change allows ESI fragments to be rendered correctly when the site is accessed via HTTPS, as Varnish cannot process ESI with HTTPS URLs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Changed generation of ESI URL in `src/Storefront/Resources/views/storefront/base.html.twig` from `url()` to `path()`.
  This ensures that only the path is used for ESI fragments, so Varnish is not forced to handle HTTPS internally.
  This change allows ESI fragments to be rendered correctly when the site is accessed via HTTPS, as Varnish cannot process ESI with HTTPS URLs.
```
